my main qualm with modern american liberalism is this kind of head in the sand optimism or positivism -- of course lives can be "saved", of course lives "matter". but this must not be taken for granted. in fact, if anything the opposite is closer to the truth. death is certain -- this is a foundational part of the human experience, and the main response to it out of the humanist circles is Ignore it, don't be morbid. It is reflected also in attitudes towards plants and animals as well as humans. This kind of thinking pretends almost as if there were some eternal salvation, in fact it has imported a great deal of its dialectic whole cloth from christianity, while doing away with the intellectual underpinning of such belief. there is no soul to be saved, there is no eternal life.

similarly, no life is inherently meaningful, no life has natural-born value. we create meaning for our lives and for others, it is often the case, but it is always possible that this should be taken away at any moment. closet racists complain against the mantra "black lives matter" on account of it oughtta be "all lives matter" -- how ridiculous. all lives do not matter. lives do not matter at all until meaning, value is created for them by humans. and no human or community of humans has ever valued all lives, certainly not valued all lives anything close to equally. this is not right or wrong, it just is. many people have a completely wrong conception of  the statement "black lives matter" -- they imagine it is some kind of factual statement (which may be true or false) -- a statement analogous to "the square root of 4 is 2". but really it is a creation of value, a fiat, an authoritative sentence. "black lives matter" or any such statement cannot be true or false in any useful sense -- it is an expression of the creative will [to power].

likewise the nobleminded liberals are fools to believe their slogan is a truth handed down from any higher authority than themselves. and they could always and at any time have willed otherwise. the meaning of life, like life itself, stands always upon the edge of a cliff.