it is often easier to remember a whole song or poem
that is padded with nonsense for the sake of its form
in order to preserve a particular detail
than it would be to remember that detail alone
without the aid of rhyme or rhythm.

our cognitive equipment is optimized to work on certain types of problems
using a certain set of categories
which are useful specifically to those types of problems.
we are good with people, places, things
we understand actions, states of being.
we are good at processing information via our familiar senses—
each modality of our perception is constituted of a recognized
collection of properties,
a defined class of possibilities.

language allows us to represent abstractions
with objects in our native cognitive processes.
we are able to think about abstractions,
i.e. manipulate them symbolically,
as if they were a person place or thing
as if they were actions or states of being
as if they were colored or had an intensity or a temperature.

this enables us to run all our optimized algorithms,
to use our specialized processing power,
like using a graphics card to mine for bitcoin.

it's basically impossible for us not to think about these abstractions
as if they were the kinds of native mental objects we represent them with,
because we have no other means of holding them in our consciousness.
and indeed, the reality that underlies what we are talking about
when we make use of these abstractions in our speech
may not correspond at all with the play of abstractions that
we represent in our speech.
for these abstractions are only theoretical constructs
that have persisted thanks to their usefulness
in allowing us to employ our native optimized processing
on situations it never originally applied to.
So it is entirely possible, in fact, that the abstractions we use
are distortions of the underlying reality rather than true reflections.

this obviously leads us to believe in the existence of a great many things
which are only elements in a machination to allow us to navigate
a reality that is beyond our comprehension
using our native cognitive processing tools.
these "things" may not "exist" in any ordinary sense,
yet they appear in our consciousness
as part of our evolutionary workaround network of symbolic interactions
which serves to aid our navigation of fundamental realities
which exist more firmly than anything else
but which are ineffable.

so with god, love, time...


if you think about sound—
we think of sound inhabiting a 3d space—
we cannot do otherwise after all,
because our consciousness is locked into a 3d model of the world—
and our auditory processing is set up to generate a 3d soundfield.
but this is limiting to the nature of sound.
sound wants to be everywhere at once.
and to slice up sound in one tiny fraction of a second, like a sample,
what makes one think this is a legitimate move?
(the mathematicians have an explanation for this,
and recordists have demonstrations,
but the devil's advocate will insist
the mathematicians can only explain how not why
and the demonstrations only prove the possibility of illusions
in our perception.)
the wave is the fundamental reality and time only has meaning relative to it.
and when you listen very closely in fact you will find
that everything is vibrating all the time
always has been always will be
but maybe it wasn't time that was there waiting to be filled up by the ringing
but rather the resonant vibration calling forth time.

so we don't think about sound in the way that it really is.
we have this processing mechanism attached to our ears
which gives us a very charming and curious and sometimes useful
set of sensations,
and we allow ourselves to think that these sensations
are the sort of thing sound is.
or we develop operations
—of voice, body, musical instrument, recording and playback equipment—
for having certain effects on these sensations,
and we think that the figures used in those operations
are the sorts of things that sound is like.
our mathematical and physical descriptions of sound too
are metaphors, not to be taken literally.
we rarely ever actually think about sound
the way it really is.
