I was born in 21 February 1989 in Cincinnati, Ohio. Until I was one I lived on
Riddle Rd in Clifton. My parents took me to Price Hill, where we lived first on
Elberon Ave. My sister Polly was born while we lived there. Once my second
sister Morrison was born we moved to Fairbanks Ave in 1992. When I was seven, in
the summer of 1996, we moved to Manss Ave. My parents still live there.

When I was eighteen, in 2007, I began attending the University of Cincinnati,
and I moved onto campus, living in Turner Hall for two years, returning to my
parents' in Price Hill each summer. At the beginning of my junior year,
September 2009, I moved to Marshall Ave. I lived there for two years and then,
in 2011, moved to McMicken Ave in Fairview, on the edge of Clifton and
overlooking the Brighton Approach and Western Hills Viaduct. I lived there for
about nine months and then, in 2012, moved to Quebec Rd in South Fairmount on
the edge of Price Hill and quite close to my parents. After a year and a half I
moved to Northside in 2014. I lived first on Jerome Ave for a few months and
then moved to a house on Hamilton Ave by Rockford Pl across from Greater
Bethlehem Temple Apostolic Church.

---

THE PITIFUL AND FRIENDLESS HENRY WILSON
===================================

there never was a sadder or more pitiful boy who every lived

there are demons who live in me, tall and slender, like vultures. they have
feasted well for many years on the furry little feelings of loneliness, of
having no real friends, that wander about wild in my soul. the vultures have
grown fat & cunning, and they have learned to cultivate these simple, weak &
nutritious creatures. they not only live in the wild, but are also grown for the
fattening of the vultures, who have thus afforded themselves much leisure. but
this leisure has not made them peaceful & easy-going, for instead they have
become jealous and terrified of losing their easy living. they respond with
extreme violence to any threat to their high & mighty well-being. loneliness is
thus nourished & protected in me, but only for a little while, up to a young age
when its meat is most tender. feelings of loneliness rarely anymore live out
their full natural lives.

instead, the flesh of loneliness is consumed & becomes the body of the
vulture-demons.

i have had a few best-friends

jonathan nixon
daniel read
chad mcintosh, perhaps
jake wilhelm

as a young child, until the age of 10 or 11, i would often mournfully lament to
my mother that i wish i had a friend. or that i could actually see and spend
time with my friend (i was convinced that jonathan was my best friend for much
of this time, but then i also rarely saw him, mostly because he lived in norwood
and our parents were not often able to bring us together — other friends, such
as the hagedorns, i also rarely hung out with in person. there were a great many
people at my seventh birthday party — thirty or forty — and to achieve such a
number i had invited practically everyone i knew, including a family of four (?)
boys whom i had only met once). or i would lament to her that i wish i had a
brother. at this age i did not count girls as close friends in the same way as
boys might be, though my closest girl friends — jane & brenna, cara & aprile —
lived a ways away & it was likewise rare to get to spend time with them. i
remember that this longing for a friend & the deep loneliness that accompanied
it was one of my strongest emotional experiences for many years.

what does my mother remember of this?

when i first met daniel, at baseball practice, i thought his name was danielle,
because he seemed to be a girl.

before long we became close, and i hardly ceased to marvel that there was
another human being so like me, who loved and enjoyed so many of the same
things, and furthermore (what marvelous chance!) was my own age (or rather, one
year older) and who lived only five minutes from my home, was also homeschooled,
and who faithfully cherished my company.

we never had any falling out. we simply grew apart, more or less as puberty took
root in our lives.

ideological differences, but no personal quarrel, drove chad and me apart. also,
we graduated high school and moved on our separate ways.

jake wilhelm was my best friend, until it unravelled because of his petty and
venomous mistreatment of me.

since then nearly all of my closest friends have been women, ariana being the
most important.

my heart is still convinced that i have no or very few true friends. is this
accurate?

i have ariana. i am still close with my sisters, polly & sunny, who have been
arguably my truest friends this whole time. there is libby, anna, and anj, my
coworkers who are much more than just coworkers. (anna is still a friend, though
in fact no longer my coworker.) collaborators on the projects dearest to me —
cameron, adam petersen, aaron collins, eddy kwon, (anj again). i must not
neglect to mention molly, who has become a real friend, even though a mostly
unfair feeling of rejection by her ultimately launched this reflective writing.
i am lucky to have my first girlfriend katie braunlin-stites still as a friend
(once more). how could i fail to mention katie eresman & jake langknecht, very
special friends and bandmates. and ryan back who fits in several of these
categories. i don’t see her as often as i’d like, but lauren is also one of my
dearest friends. and if i may include those that i don’t see often (questionable
in this exercise, actually, since having a friend but being unable to see them
is part of my trauma, but still worth mentioning) then there is also milan. it
may be premature, but there is kelsey cork. others could easily be my good
friends, simply waiting on the periphery because i have such an embarrassing
wealth of friends — marc governanti, kristin guastaferro, isaac karns, tory
keith, kellie sedgwick, lydia rosenberg & kaley madden. there are others i
haven’t mentioned, lisa witte, ben sloan, lily soderlund, samantha rhodes,
michael oliva, molly morris, jordan long cullars, andy jody, sophia cunningham,
danielle c.

considered in this light, what do i make of the cases of sarah hanselmann,
veronique allaer, zohair hussain, kirsten bladh, ava roberts, jerry westerkamp,
kate wakefield, emily mccolgan, rachel mcneal, ashley bowman, lillian currens,
paul coors, rachel fink-sigler?

in one way or another, they have not lived up to some kind of expectation i set
in my mind — but was this expectation ever fair? or in any case, was it ever
really what i needed? if i see myself as someone with a wealth of friends, the
shortcomings of these people tend to seem insignificant or disappear completely.

---

Frederick B. Suhre, farmer, my grandfather, passed away at 11.50p, wednesday,
may 22, 2013 at his home in Brookville, IN. He was born april 28, 1922 in the
same farmhouse where he died.

He farmed up until his death. He had been preparing for this year, but had not
yet started planting when, a week ago the last saturday night before he died, he
had a stroke--complications of which caused his death. His son hired another
farming family to finish the fields. It started raining just as he passed
peacefully away.
