how to book a show at 3117 warsaw

we ask for $40 flat-rate up-front for use of the space. artists are welcome to keep any cover or donations that they collect.

the best way to be in contact with us is by email: henryjhwilson@gmail.com

for shows, typically we open doors at 8pm and start the performances at 9pm. this starting time can be somewhat flexible, however, so let us know if you are interested in a different time. shows (any sounds above the level of normal conversation) must be over by midnight.

someone needs to act as the promoter of your show. this should be someone local or who has established strong working relationships locally. ideally this should be someone who has experience booking and promoting diy shows, but there are no special qualifications necessary. it can be a member of a local band or local performing artist.

the promoter is responsible for putting together a suitable bill for the evening's show. often, this could take the shape of three acts. in such a case, if there is an out-of-town act, they should be "sandwiched" in between two locals. shows are not restricted to this three-act format, however. in any case, the entire performance show should be contained within a three-hour stretch of time, and the final bill must be approved by us. it is extremely rare that we would decline a bill presented to us, but we maintain the option of doing so if necessary.

the promoter should generally be the first to arrive, and should stay throughout the show to ensure that it runs as planned, to oversee collection of donations, and to make sure that artists (particularly out-of-towners) receive their share of money collected, etc. it is the promoter's responsibility to pay the $40 fee before the start of the show. if the person who coordinates and promotes the show is for some reason unavailable on the actual night of the show, they must delegate someone to be there in person to fulfill these responsibilities on their behalf.

as one may presume from the word itself, it is also the promoter's responsibility to take the lead in promoting the show. really, as is typical of underground music and arts performances of any kind, it is the responsibility of all the artists involved to promote the show to their adoring fans, family, friends and frienemies. in fact, it is simply in their best interest to do so. we will publicize the event thru our social media streams as well, but unlike some bars, we have no built-in crowd, and communication directly from the performers involved is most effective.

what we provide

we provide a pa and basic live sound necessities. 4 microphones, with stands, 2 di boxes. the pa system inlcudes an 18" subwoofer and is plenty powerful for any volume level appropriate to the space, including bass-heavy electronic music. no floor wedge monitors are provided as none are necessary in this small space. the room is acoustically treated. we also have a projector available, which can play files from a usb flash drive or can be interfaced with a source device via hdmi. please communicate any technical needs not covered here in advance of the show.

hospitality
clean space
water/popcorn

parking
we have very limited off-street parking, and in general it is occupied by the residents of the building. however, there is plenty of on-street parking around the venue, including directly in front of the building on Warsaw Ave.

load-in

the performance room is about 450 sq ft. reasonably, about 50 people is the largest audience that the space can hold, leaving a bit of space for the stage area. this is for a performance that requires relatively little gear. when there is a lot of equipment in the space, or for a performance that requires more space, this maximum capacity may be reduced. there is additional lobby/lounge space outside of the performance room itself, which is a good place to keep food/drinks.