2/21/2018

doubting thomas —

what one wants to know is not how to replace talk of touching someone's hand with talk of displacement over time of the electron field & such, but to understand why touching this *particular* hand and feeling its realness in that moment can mean the difference between ultimate meaning and meaninglessness, between absolute hope & absolute despair

faith & doubt are aspects of the same archetype

everything in the fundamental reality comes to us in dual composite form, the thing and its "opposite", signifer/signified, obverse/reverse, yin/yang, so on endlessly.. it is unclear whether this reflects some dual structure in the fundamental reality or (my suspicion) a dual structure in our psychic hardware — when all you have is a hammer, everything starts to look like a nail — when all you have is a composite dual psychic cognitive structure, everything starts to look like it carries the seed of its own destruction and rebirth within it.

sometimes a number or a solution is seen as unstable and sometimes it is seen as stable. if it is unstable, it is always trying to resolve to some stable number, roll down to an energy minimum. three, for instance, may be seen as a stable number — as when we consider the legs of a stool — two is unstable, four is semi-stable, three is stable. or it may be seen as unstable — as on a date, where the 'third wheel' destabilizes the situation.

===

3/5/2021

this is some free advice for theists who are of an intellectual type, for whom apologetics and arguments for the existence of god are personally important. all purely dialectical arguments for the existence of god are useless. the only meaningful proof for the existence of deity takes the form: god is real, god is alive, i have touched them, you can meet them.

the instinct to insist on demonstrations of the logical validity of this or that theistic proof is a false lead. only the most inept proof attempt by a would-be apologist fails to attain logical validity. *the fundamental issue with essentially all intellectual arguments for the existence of god is that they are flat-out unpersuasive.*{1}

if every logically formalized case for the existence of god and (crucially) for the positive assertion of some proposition about his her or its nature were examined in detail, the critical point would typically be that either certain premises are deeply uncertain or the conclusion does not meaningfully relate to any question of divinity in the life of the one that would be persuaded.

so the advice i have is to remember st thomas. remember that touching is the critical thing in any intellectual relationship with deity.


{1} notably, the complementary case is entirely true as well, although with a nuance: deities in general can never persuasively be proven not to exist by any mere line of reasoning, but very specific deities can indeed be persuasively disproven.