response project

	Puck's Final Speech
	from A Midsummer Night's Dream
	by William Shakespeare

    If we shadows have offended,
    Think but this, and all is mended,
    That you have but slumber'd here
    While these visions did appear.
    And this weak and idle theme,
    No more yielding but a dream,
    Gentles, do not reprehend:
    if you pardon, we will mend:
    And, as I am an honest Puck,
    If we have unearned luck
    Now to 'scape the serpent's tongue,
    We will make amends ere long;
    Else the Puck a liar call;
    So, good night unto you all.
    Give me your hands, if we be friends,
    And Robin shall restore amends.

---

first reaction:
never apologize on stage

however, in this case, Puck is being playful and infinitely charming
and this epilogue is an internal reference to the play within a play
in this play
to the comically ridiculous prologue presented by Quince at Theseus' palace

---

Ta-Nehisi Coates
Between the World and Me

concerning "dreams" and "the Dream"

he tears down "the Dream" as clearly it is built on a vicious exclusive interpretation of "Men", "the people"
but the author describes that in his intellectual progression
while he could construct an alternate Dream to take the place of white supremacist American happiness
he comes to see that all Dreams are equally specious
accepting the very structure of the Dream is the error

the use of the term "dream" seems rather jarring here
in ways that are clearly intended by the author:
1) dreams are generally valued positive or else at least thought of as harmless (cf Puck)
2) dreams are generally thought of as fleeting, vanishing, ineffectual (outstide of the chain of cause and effect that defines reality), but the Dream in Coates looms large and powerful and material -- or rather, its effects and influence are immensely material -- but the Dream itself, even if mental and ephemeral in some way, is unyielding, set down once and for all, much more permanent than bodies [to which it pertains].

the author is thus using the term with an inverted sense
it works because in American society in particular this term "dream" has been freighted down
and built up in a distinct characteristic way
so when Coates talks about how "the Dream" -- unqualified --
"... smells like peppermint but tastes like strawberry shortcake..."
we know what he is talking about
*The American Dream*

From the Library of Congress website
What is the American Dream?

	The authors of the United States’ Declaration of Independence held certain truths to be self-evident: that all Men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness." Might this sentiment be considered the foundation of the American Dream?

	Were homesteaders who left the big cities of the east to find happiness and their piece of land in the unknown wilderness pursuing these inalienable Rights? Were the immigrants who came to the United States looking for their bit of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, their Dream? And what did the desire of the veteran of World War II - to settle down, to have a home, a car and a family - tell us about this evolving Dream? Is the American Dream attainable by all Americans?

Interesting questions...
and we do well to remember that no universal agreement will be found
the viewpoint of a native American community is very different from that of a pioneer settler community
is very different from that of urban and African-American or Latino community
is very different from that of a Wall St banker community
is very different from that of the Northside community

"the dream" is formulated to have an entirely elastic meaning
it could mean whatever one makes of it -- their own interpretation of life, liberty and happiness --
in theory
but what you can't help noticing when you look at the reality of it
the history of it -- nature shaping all things as she does in her inscrutable ways --
is that there are some dramatic exclusions and associations and images that adhere to certain key words
"Men" for instance
who exactly are the "Men"?
and when you interpret these lines from the declaration of independence in our culture's language
it's clear that one is supposed to think of all heterosexual white males are created equal
property-owning heads of households
wife and kids and dog and minivan
and sportscar for the weekend
a nice house
friendly neighbors
But are we not ashamed to speak so misleadingly?
our country is founded on race slavery and expansionist genocide
and it is a joke to think that liberty is a core value of the country with the highest incarceration rate in the world
or that it is in the name of life that our missiles and bombs and bullets have killed hundreds of thousands in Afghanistan and Iraq in the last fifteen years

